# Security Configuration & Hardening

VMware, and now Broadcom, provides specific baseline guidance for hardening and auditing VMware products. Choose the version of the Security Configuration & Hardening Guide that is appropriate for your environment from the folder structure here.

## Permanent Links
We maintain a permanent link for use in documents and other resources:

https://brcm.tech/vcf-scg

The current target of this redirected link, as well as many other resources, can be found in the resources & links section below.

## Resources & Links
Additional security information can be found throughout this entire repository:

[https://github.com/vmware/vcf-security-and-compliance-guidelines](https://github.com/vmware/vcf-security-and-compliance-guidelines)

Also visit [LINKS.md](https://github.com/vmware/vcf-security-and-compliance-guidelines/blob/main/LINKS.md) for more information and links to additional resources.

## Support
Please see [SUPPORT.md](https://github.com/vmware/vcf-security-and-compliance-guidelines/blob/main/SUPPORT.md).

## License
Please see [LICENSE.md](https://github.com/vmware/vcf-security-and-compliance-guidelines/blob/main/LICENSE.md).

## Feedback
Please use the issue tracker in our GitHub repository to submit feedback:

[https://github.com/vmware/vcf-security-and-compliance-guidelines/issues](https://github.com/vmware/vcf-security-and-compliance-guidelines/issues)

Thank you.

## Disclaimer
This repository is intended to provide general guidance for organizations that
are considering Broadcom solutions. The information contained in this document
is for educational and informational purposes only. This repository is not
intended to provide advice and is provided “AS IS.” Broadcom makes no claims,
promises, or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the
information contained herein. Organizations should engage appropriate legal,
business, technical, and audit expertise within their specific organization
for review of requirements and effectiveness of implementations.

This material is provided as is and any express or implied warranties,
including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and
fitness for a particular purpose are disclaimed. In no event shall the
copyright holder or contributors be liable for any direct, indirect,
incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not
limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services; loss of use, data,
or profits; or business interruption) however caused and on any theory of
liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including
negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this software,
even if advised of the possibility of such damage. The provider makes no
claims, promises, or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy
of this sample. Organizations should engage appropriate legal, business,
technical, and audit expertise within their specific organization for review
of requirements and effectiveness of implementations. You acknowledge that
there may be performance or other considerations, and that these examples may
make assumptions which may not be valid in your environment or organization.

## Contact
The primary curator of this repository is Bob Plankers, reachable at bob.plankers@broadcom.com. Individual components may have other authors, as noted.